       Help for Ed  (V 2.0)
---------------------------------
     by Qixx [Update: 7/10/91]


Commands
--------
/       search forward for pattern
?       search backward for a pattern
=       show current line number
a       append text starting after this line
	Command: a   Usage: a
	Append causes the editor to enter input mode, inserting all text
	starting AFTER the current line. Use a '.' on a blank line to exit
	this mode.

A       like 'a' but with inverse autoindent mode
	Command: A   Usage: A
	Like the 'a' command, but uses inverse autoindent mode.

c       change current line, query for replacement text
	Command: c   Usage: c
	Change command causes the current line to be wiped from memory.
	The editor enters input mode and all text is inserted where the previous
	line existed.

d       delete line(s)
	Command: d   Usage: d  or [range]d
	Deletes the current line unless preceeded with a range of lines,
	then the entire range will be deleted.

e       replace this file with another file
	Commmand: e  Usage: e filename
	Causes the current file to be wiped from memory, and the new file
	to be loaded in.

E       same as 'e' but works if file has been modified
	Commmand: E  Usage: E filename
	Causes the current file to be wiped from memory, and the new file
	to be loaded in.  Different from 'e' in the fact that it will wipe
	the current file even if there are unsaved modifications.

f       show/change current file name
	Command: f  Usage: f  or f filename
	Display or set the current filename.   If  filename is given as
	an argument, the file (f) command changes the current filename to
	filename; otherwise, it prints  the current filename.

g       Search and execute command on any matching line.
	Command: g  Usage: g/re/p
	Search in all lines for expression 're', and print
	every match. Command 'l' can also be given
	Unlike in unix ed, you can also supply a range of lines
	to search in
	Compare with command 'v'.

h       help file (display this message)
	Command: h    Usage:  h  or hc (where c is a command)
	Help files added by Qixx.

i       insert text starting before this line
	Command: i   Usage: i
	Insert causes the editor to enter input mode, inserting all text
	starting BEFORE the current line. Use a '.' on a blank line to exit
	this mode.

I       indent the entire file (from DGD ed v0.1)
	This command indents your entire file under the
	assumption that it is LPC code.  It is only useful
	for files that are not yet indented, since the
	indentation style is unlikely to satisfy anyone.
	Originally from DGD ed.

j       join lines together
	Command: j    Usage: j or [range]j
	Join Lines. Remove the NEWLINE character  from  between the  two
	addressed lines.  The defaults are the current line and the line
	following.  If exactly one address is given,  this  command does
	nothing.  The joined line is the resulting current line.

k       mark this line with a character - later referenced as 'a
	Command: k   Usage: kc  (where c is a character)
	Mark the addressed line with the name c,  a  lower-case
	letter.   The  address-form,  'c,  addresses  the  line
	marked by c.  k accepts one address; the default is the
	current line.  The current line is left unchanged.

l       line line(s) with control characters displayed
	Command: l   Usage: l  or  [range]l
	List the current line or a range of lines in an unambiguous
	way such that non-printing characters are represented as
	symbols (specifically New-Lines).

m       move line(s) to specified line
	Command: m   Usage: mADDRESS or [range]mADDRESS
	Move the current line (or range of lines if specified) to a
	location just after the specified ADDRESS.  Address 0 is the
	beginning of the file and the default destination is the
	current line.

n       toggle line numbering
	Command: n   Usage: n
	This command toggles the internal flag which will cause line
	numbers to be printed whenever a line is listed.

p       print line(s) in range
	Command: p    Usage: p  or  [range]p
	Print the current line (or range of lines if specified) to the
	screen. See the commands 'n' and 'set' if line numbering is desired.

q       quit editor
	Command: q    Usage: q
	Quit the editor. Note that you can't quit this way if there
	are any unsaved changes.  See 'w' for writing changes to file.

Q       quit editor even if file modified and not saved
	Command: Q    Usage: Q
	Force Quit.  Quit the editor even if the buffer contains unsaved
	modifications.

r       read file into editor at end of file or behind the given line
	Command: r    Usage: r filename
	Reads the given filename into the current buffer starting
	at the current line.

s       search and replace

set     query, change or save option settings
	Without arguments: show current settings.
	'set save' will preserve the current settings for subsequent invocations of ed.
	Options:

	number     will print line numbers before printing or inserting a lines
	list       will print control characters in p(rint) and z command like in
	l(ist)
	print      will show current line after a single substitution
	eightbit
	autoindent will preserve current indentation while entering text.
        	   use ^D or ^K to get back one step back to the right.
	excompatible will exchange the meaning of \( and ( as well as \) and )

	An option can be cleared by prepending it with 'no' in the set command, e.g.
	'set nolist' to turn off the list option.

	set shiftwidth <digit> will store <digit> in the shiftwidth variable, which
	determines how much blanks are removed from the current indentation when
	typing ^D or ^K in the autoindent mode.

t       move copy of line(s) to specified line
	Command: t   Usage: tADDRESS or [range]tADDRESS
	Transpose a copy of the current line (or range of lines if specified)
	to a location just after the specified ADDRESS.  Address 0 is the
	beginning of the file and the default destination
	is the current line.

v       Search and execute command on any non-matching line.
	Command: v   Usage: v/re/p
	Search in all lines without expression 're', and print
	every match. Other commands than 'p' can also be given
	Compare with command 'g'.

x       save file and quit
	Command: x   Usage: x
	Save file under the current name, and then exit from ed.

w       write to current file (or specified file)

W       like the 'w' command but appends instead

z       display 20 lines, possible args are . + -
	Command: z   Usage: z  or  z-  or z.
	Displays 20 lines starting at the current line.
	If the command is 'z.' then 20 lines are displayed being
	centered on the current line. The command 'z-' displays
	the 20 lines before the current line.

Z       display 40 lines, possible args are . + -
	Command: Z   Usage: Z  or  Z-  or Z.
	Displays 40 lines starting at the current line.
	If the command is 'Z.' then 40 lines are displayed being
	centered on the current line. The command 'Z-' displays
	the 40 lines before the current line.

